How to Integrate Directus with Angular (#112)
directus-labs/guest-authoring: angular-with-directus/how to integrate directus with Angular.md

Angular is a front-end framework that leverage TypeScript to create web applications. In this tutorial, you will use the framework to implement the front-end for the Directus headless CMS. You will implement a blog that loads blog posts dynamically and also serves global metadata.

## Prerequisites
- Some knowledge of TypeScript and [Angular](https://angular.io/)

> - A Directus project either locally or on [Directus cloud](https://directus.cloud/register)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A Directus project. Follow the [Quickstart guide](https://docs.directus.io/getting-started/quickstart.html) to create one.
```

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download) and a development environment of your choice

> - Install the Angular CLI - use the Angular [guide](https://angular.io/guide/setup-local) to achieve this. Note that Angular and TypeScript versions must be compatible. Since the SDK requires a minimum TypeScript version of 5.0, you need to use Angular version 17 for your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Install the Angular CLI - use the Angular [guide](https://angular.io/guide/setup-local) to achieve this. 

:::info Compatibility

Note that Angular and TypeScript versions must be compatible. Since the SDK requires a minimum TypeScript version of 5.0, you need to use Angular version 17 for your project.

:::
```

## Initialize Project
To create a new Angular project, use the following command.

```bash
ng new directus-with-angular
```
For the prompts, choose CSS for the stylesheet format and no to disable server side rendering and static site generation.

> ```bash

Reviewer: Remove this. You don't need to explain the options then show the options. Putting them in one code block is much more succinct.

Author: sure

? Which stylesheet format would you like to use? CSS
? Do you want to enable Server-Side Rendering (SSR) and Static Site Generation (SSG/Prerendering)? (y/N) No
```

> Once the project has been created, open it in the development environment and replace the code in the `src/app/app.component.html` file with the following tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Once the project has been created, open it in your code editor and replace the code in the `src/app/app.component.html` file with the following:
```

```html
<router-outlet/>
```
Angular will dynamically fill the [RouterOutlet](https://angular.io/api/router/RouterOutlet) placeholder based on the current router state.

You should also disable strict checking in `./tsconfig.json` file under `compilerOptions`.

```json
"strict": false
```

> Next, open a new terminal window and CD into the project then use the following command to start the server at `http://localhost:4200`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to your project directory in a terminal and start the development server at `http://localhost:4200`:
```

```bash
ng serve
```
## Configure the Directus SDK
Open a new terminal window and CD into the project then use the following command to install the directus SDK.

```bash
npm install @directus/sdk

> ```

Reviewer: Move this to the Initialize project step before starting the dev server, then everything can happen in one terminal. 

I also prefer `Navigate to your project directory in a terminal and...`.

In your project, create a file named `./directus.ts` with the following code.

```ts

> import {createDirectus, rest} from "@directus/sdk";
> type Metadata = {
>   id: number;
>   title: string;
>   description: string;
> }
> 
> type Job = {
>   id: number;
>   title: string;
>   description: string;
> }
> type Gallery = {
>   id: number;
>   image: string;
>   title: string;
>   description: string;
> }
> 
> type Schema = {
>   metadata: Metadata;
>   gallery: Gallery[];
>   job: Job[];
> }
> 
> const directus =
>   createDirectus<Schema>("YOUR_DIRECTUS_URL")
>     .with(rest());
> 
> export {directus, Metadata, Gallery, Job}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import {createDirectus, rest} from "@directus/sdk";

type Metadata = {
  id: number;
  title: string;
  description: string;
}

type Job = {
  id: number;
  title: string;
  description: string;
}

type Gallery = {
  id: number;
  image: string;
  title: string;
  description: string;
}

type Schema = {
  metadata: Metadata;
  gallery: Gallery[];
  job: Job[];
}

const directus =
  createDirectus<Schema>("YOUR_DIRECTUS_URL")
    .with(rest());

export {directus, Metadata, Gallery, Job}
```

Reviewer: I just added some new lines - nothing else changed.

Reviewer: Though, please use the same data model as all other tutorials of this type: globals, pages, posts, and authors. https://docs.directus.io/blog/getting-started-directus-and-eleventy-11ty-3

```
For every Directus model that you define, you need to create a TypeScript type for that model. The type will help to map the JSON data to TypeScript objects.

> In addition, you should expose an instance of the Directus SDK that you will use to make different requests to the Directus CMS.

Reviewer: Move this to the top of this section to explain what we're doing

Author: Okay.

> ## Serving Global Metadata

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using Global Metadata and Settings
```

To display the contents of the object, replace the code in the `src/app/component/home/home.component.html` file with the following code.

```ts
<div *ngIf="metadata">
  <h1>{{metadata.title}}</h1>
  <p>{{metadata.description}}</p>
</div>
```
### Add Routing for the Metadata
In your project, go to `app.routes.ts` and replace the code in the file with the following code.

```ts
import { Routes } from '@angular/router';
import {HomeComponent} from "./component/home/home.component";

export const routes: Routes = [
  {path: '', component: HomeComponent},
];
```
Once the application reloads, go to `https://localhost:4200`. As a result, the home component containing the metadata is loaded on the page.

## Serving Dynamic Pages
In your Directus project, create a new collection named `job` with the fields `id`, `title` , and `description`.

However, the collection should not be a singleton. In addition, grant public access and add some job items to the collection. 

Angular uses path variables and query parameters to serve dynamic data. As a result, you will leverage the `id` as the path variable to display different type of job items.

### Create a Component for Dynamic Pages

> On an existing terminal window of your project, use the following command to generate the the job detail component.

Reviewer: Ah interesting - so you always need a second terminal. I would amend to this: 

```suggestion
In your terminal, generate the the job detail component:
```

Of course, I want you to use the correct collection names, but I would still simplify language for clarity.

import {ActivatedRoute} from "@angular/router";
import {CommonModule, NgIf} from "@angular/common";
import {readItem} from "@directus/sdk";

@Component({
  selector: 'app-job-detail',
  standalone: true,
  imports: [
    CommonModule
  ],
  templateUrl: './job-detail.component.html',
  styleUrl: './job-detail.component.css'
})
export class JobDetailComponent implements OnInit{
  job: Job;
  constructor(private route: ActivatedRoute) {
  }
  ngOnInit(): void {
    this.getJobById(+this
      .route
      .snapshot
      .paramMap.get('id'))
  }
  async getJobById(id: number){
    //@ts-ignore
    this.job = await directus
      .request<Job>(readItem("job", id))
  }
}
```
When the component is initialized, the `id` path variable is retrieved using `ActivatedRoute` and passed to the `readItem()` method to get a job with that id.

The retrieved job item is stored in the object named `job`. To display the contents of the job item, replace the code in the `src/app/component/job-detail/job-detail.component.html` file with the following code.

```html
<div *ngIf="job">
  <h2>{{job.title}}</h2>
  <p>{{job.description}}</p>
</div>
```
### Add Routing for Dynamic Pages

> Go to `src/app/app.routes.ts` file and add the following route in the `Routes` array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `src/app/app.routes.ts` add the following route in the `Routes` array:
```

```ts
  {path: 'job/:id', component: JobDetailComponent},
```
when the application reloads, go to `http://localhost:4200/job/id` to view a job item based on its id. Replace the `id` path variable with an appropriate primary key. In addition, replace the id with other keys to view different job items.

## List All the Blog Posts
In your Directus project, create a collection named `gallery` with the fields `id`, `image`, `title`, and `description`. 

Next, add some items to the collection and grant public access. 

> You also need to grant public access to the files to access images. To achieve this, go to **Settings > Access Control > Public > System Collections** and allow read permission for `directus_files`.

Reviewer: Refer to this for how to explain data modeling and providing sample data: https://docs.directus.io/blog/getting-started-directus-and-eleventy-11ty-3.html#creating-blog-posts-with-directus

Author: Okay.

```json
"strict": false
```

Navigate to your project directory in a terminal and start the development server at `http://localhost:4200`:

```bash
ng serve
```
## Create an instance of Directus SDK
For every Directus model that you define, you need to create a TypeScript type for that model. The type will help to map the JSON data to TypeScript objects.

In addition, you should expose an instance of the Directus SDK that you will use to make different requests to the Directus CMS.

In your project, create a file named `./directus.ts` with the following code:

```ts
import {createDirectus, rest} from "@directus/sdk";

type Global = {
  id: number;
  title: string;
  description: string;
}

type Author = {
  id: number;
  name: string;
}

type Page = {
  slug: string;
  title: string;
  content: string;
}

type Post = {
  id: number;
  image: string;
  title: string;
  content: string;
  author: Author;
  published_date: string;
}

type Schema = {
  global: Global;
  posts: Post[];
  pages: Page[];
}

const directus =
  createDirectus<Schema>("YOUR_DIRECTUS_URL")
    .with(rest());

export {directus, Global, Post, Page}

> ```

Reviewer: Add a sentence or two here to say each type represents one collection we will create later in the tutorial, and each property is a field. As `global` is a singleton, we do not define it as an array in the Schema.

Author: Okay.

## Using Global Metadata and Settings
In your Directus project, go to **Settings > Data Model** and create a singleton collection named `global` with the fields `title` and `description`. The primary key named `id` will be created for you by default.

> To ensure the collection is a singleton, select the **Singleton** checkbox. Note that this collection matches the `Global` type you created in the previous section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure the collection is a singleton, select the **Singleton** checkbox. This collection's fields match the `Global` type you created when defining the Schema for the Directus SDK.
```

> Once the collection is defined go to the **Content** section and add the title and description for the metadata. 
> 
> To permit public access to the metadata, go to **Settings > Access Control > Public** and permit the read permission under the metadata section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the collection is defined go to the **Content** section and add the title and description for the metadata. Go to **Settings > Access Control > Public** and allow read permissions for the global collection.
```

### Create a Component for the Global Metadata

> Navigate to your project directory in a terminal and create the global metadata component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to your project directory in a terminal and create a `global` component:
```

  ],
  templateUrl: './global.component.html',
  styleUrl: './global.component.css'
})
export class GlobalComponent implements OnInit{
  global: Global;
  ngOnInit(): void {
    this.getGlobal();
  }

  async getGlobal(){
    //@ts-ignore
    this.global = await directus
      .request<Global>(readSingleton("global"))
  }

}
```
When this component is initialized, it will retrieve the singleton and store it in the `global` object. 

To display the contents of the object, replace the code in the `src/app/component/global/global.component.html` file with the following code:

```ts
<div *ngIf="global">
  <h1>{{global.title}}</h1>
  <p>{{global.description}}</p>
</div>
```
### Add Routing for the Global Metadata
In `app.routes.ts` replace the code in the file with the following code:

```ts
import { Routes } from '@angular/router';
import {GlobalComponent} from "./component/global/global.component";

export const routes: Routes = [
  {path: '', component: GlobalComponent}
];
```
Once the application reloads, go to `https://localhost:4200`. As a result, the global component containing the global metadata is loaded on the page.

## Creating Pages with Directus

### Configure Directus

> In your Directus project, create a new collection named `pages` - make the Priary ID Field a "Manually Entered String" called `slug`, which will correlate with the URL for the page. For example, `privacy` will later correlate to the page `localhost:4200/privacy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your Directus project, create a new collection named `pages` - make the Primary ID Field a "Manually Entered String" called `slug`, which will correlate with the URL for the page. For example, `about` will later correlate to the page `localhost:4200/about`.
```

### Dynamic Routes in Angular
Navigate to your project directory in a terminal and generate the page component:

```bash
ng g c component/page
```
Replace the code in the `src/app/component/page/page.component.ts` file with the following code:

```ts
import {Component, OnInit} from '@angular/core';
import {directus, Page} from "../../../../directus";
import {ActivatedRoute} from "@angular/router";
import {CommonModule} from "@angular/common";
import {readItem} from "@directus/sdk";

@Component({
  selector: 'app-page',
  standalone: true,
  imports: [CommonModule],
  templateUrl: './page.component.html',
  styleUrl: './page.component.css'
})
export class PageComponent implements OnInit{
  page: Page;

  constructor(private route: ActivatedRoute) {
  }

  ngOnInit(): void {
    this.route.paramMap.subscribe(params => {
      const slug = params.get("slug");
      if (slug){
        this.getPageBySlug(slug);
      }
    })
  }

  async getPageBySlug(slug: string){
    //@ts-ignore
    this.page = await directus
      .request<Page>(readItem("pages", slug));
  }

}
```

> When the component is initialized, the `slug` path parameter is retrieved using `ActivatedRoute` and passed to the `readItem()` method to get a page with that slug.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the component is initialized, the `slug` path parameter is retrieved using `ActivatedRoute` and passed to the `readItem()` function to get a page with that slug.
```

The retrieved page is stored in the object named `page`. To display the contents of the page, replace the code in the `src/app/component/page/page.component.html` file with the following code:

```html
<div *ngIf="page">
  <h1>{{page.title}}</h1>
  <p>{{page.content}}</p>
</div>
```
### Add Routing for the Pages
In `src/app/app.routes.ts` add the following route in the `Routes` array:

```ts

>    {path: ':slug', component: PageComponent},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{path: ':slug', component: PageComponent},
```

```

> when the application reloads, go to `http://localhost:4200/privacy` to view the privacy page. Replace the `slug` path parameter with `about` and `conduct` to view the content of about and conduct pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visit `http://localhost:4200/about` to view the privacy page. Replace the `slug` path parameter with `about` and `conduct` to view the content of about and conduct pages held in Directus.
```

## Creating Blog Posts with Directus
In your Directus project, create a new collection called `authors` with a single text input field called `name`. Add some authors to the collection.

> Next, create a new collection named `posts` - make the Primary ID Field an "Auto-incremented integer" called `id` which will correlate with the URL for the page. For example, `1` will later correlate to the page `localhost:3000/blog/1`.

Reviewer: Use a slug with a manually-entered string please, as per the other tutorials.

Author: Okay

import {CommonModule} from "@angular/common";
import {readItems} from "@directus/sdk";

@Component({
  selector: 'app-posts',
  standalone: true,
  imports: [CommonModule, RouterLink],
  templateUrl: './posts.component.html',
  styleUrl: './posts.component.css'
})
export class PostsComponent implements OnInit{
  posts: Post[];

  ngOnInit(): void {
    this.getAllPosts();
  }

  async getAllPosts(){
    //@ts-ignore
    this.posts = await directus
      .request<Post[]>(readItems("posts", {
        fields: ["id","title", "published_date", {author: ["name"]}]
      }))
  }
}

```
When the component is initialized, it will retrieve all the posts using the `readItems()` method and store them in the `posts` array.

To list the posts, replace the code in the `src/app/component/posts/posts.component.html` file with the following code:

```html
<h1>Blog Posts</h1>
<ol>
  <li *ngFor="let post of posts">
    <a routerLink="#">
      <h2>{{post.title}}</h2>
    </a>
    <span>
      {{post.published_date}} &bull; {{post.author.name}}
    </span>
  </li>
</ol>
```
### Add Routing for Posts
Go to `src/app/app.routes.ts` file and add the following route in the `Routes` array:

```ts

>  {path: 'blog', component: PostsComponent},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{path: 'blog', component: PostsComponent},
```

### Create a Component for Gallery Detail
Navigate to your project directory in a terminal and create the post component:

```bash
ng g c component/post
```
Replace the code in the `src/app/component/post/post.component.ts` file with the following code.

```ts
import {Component, OnInit} from '@angular/core';
import {directus, Post} from "../../../../directus";
import {ActivatedRoute} from "@angular/router";
import {CommonModule} from "@angular/common";
import {readItem} from "@directus/sdk";

@Component({
  selector: 'app-post',
  standalone: true,
  imports: [CommonModule],
  templateUrl: './post.component.html',
  styleUrl: './post.component.css'
})
export class PostComponent implements OnInit{
  post: Post;
  baseUrl = "YOUR_DIRECTUS_URL";
  constructor(private route: ActivatedRoute) {
  }
  ngOnInit(): void {
    this
      .getPostById(+this
      .route
      .snapshot
      .paramMap.get('id'))
  }

  async getPostById(id: number){
    //@ts-ignore
    this.post = await directus
      .request<Post>(readItem("posts", id));
  }

}
```

> When the component is initialized, it will retrieve the path variable using the `ActivatedRoute` and pass it to the `readItem()` method to get the post with that id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the component is initialized, it will retrieve the path variable using the `ActivatedRoute` and pass it to the `readItem()` function to get the post with that id.
```

```ts
{path: 'blog/:id', component: PostComponent}
```
Once the application reloads, go to `http://localhost:4200/blog` and click on a post. As a result, the individual post will be displayed on the page via the path `http://localhost:4200/blog/id`.

![blog post pages](blog-post-page.png)

## Add Navigation
To avoid navigating through the application manually, you should add navigation links that will dynamically route you to different components. To achieve this, go to `src/app/app.component.html` and add the following code before the `<router-outlet/>` tag.

```html
<nav>
  <ul>
    <li><a routerLink="/">Home</a> </li>
    <li><a routerLink="/about">About</a> </li>
    <li><a routerLink="/conduct">Code of Conduct</a> </li>
    <li><a routerLink="/privacy">Privacy Policy</a> </li>
    <li><a routerLink="/blog">Blog</a> </li>
  </ul>
</nav>
```

## Recap
In this tutorial, you have learned how to integrate directus with Angular. You have covered how to use global metadata and settings, how to create pages, how to create a post listing, how to show blog post pages, and lastly how to add navigation in your application.

> The Directus CMS is quite diverse and it can accomodate any type of blog that you might want to create. For instance, one of the features of Directus you can leverage is authentication of requests. The Directus SDK makes authentication very easy for you. Go to the authentication [guide](https://docs.directus.io/guides/sdk/authentication.html) to learn how to authenticate your requests.

Reviewer: Remove this - the previous paragraph is a perfect end.

Author: Okay
